Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I hear you. I can't see you, though.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh. Hi Wendy
Windy Borjas: Hi. Sorry I'm late. I had to
Windy Borjas: Pick up my daughter and I was trying to turn around a movie for you.
While
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're right on time.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How are you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are you in a place with good reception.
Windy Borjas: choppy.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, can you hear me.
Windy Borjas: Now I can hear you.
Windy Borjas: You're like cutting
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Out there for a second. Yeah, I can hear you. And I can see
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How it's been, um, it's been a while. We met last
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Me about in March and to do your bio psychosocial and the work you miss sessions. And so now we're back trying to connect and see how I can support you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So how have you been since we last spoke in March.
Windy Borjas: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's been going well for you.
Windy Borjas: I saw my own place.
Windy Borjas: I see my daughter everyday.
Things are going good.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What
Windy Borjas: Been my struggle lately is is my husband being in prison and with the virus going on.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's going on with that. How is he going
He's okay.
Windy Borjas: They got tested and everybody in his pod came back negative. This was like this, a couple days ago and they called and they put them on emergence be locked down because they have two people in all of a sudden
Windy Borjas: test positive for the writer.
Windy Borjas: Not sure what happened there. He said they were new people, though.
Windy Borjas: I don't know.
Windy Borjas: But now I don't know. I mean, they're already on lockdown. They put them on your time though. You can't call throughout the day, like
Windy Borjas: On even number days he comes out once or twice a day.
Windy Borjas: morning and night, and then an odd number of days become that one.
Windy Borjas: Now that they had people test positive thought. I don't know if they're gonna lock them down.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So how have you been responding with that situation.
Windy Borjas: Getting high
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Did you get in high
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what are you getting high on
Windy Borjas: Oh, man.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, even while in the program. Matthew still been
Windy Borjas: My life.
Windy Borjas: I started it around the time I started the Methadone program and I struggling with it. Ever since I was clean off of it. I had finally gotten the cleaning away and everything, but
I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Knew that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Did you use anything after last weekend.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So your last few spills over the weekend.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And the doctor knows
Windy Borjas: Oh, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, so tell me what was going on. What were your thoughts.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What were your thoughts on what
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What results to the best coping.
Windy Borjas: Because that's the only coping mechanism. I know.
Windy Borjas: Trying to learn new one. But that's what I've known for over a decade.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah yeah so that that's exactly helps me to see, okay, what can I do to help support you and learning more coping tools because this addiction.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: With strong right. It's not just this mine thing to knowledge, your brain SMB signals to you, your body is being activated through all of this.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: These anxious thoughts. I remember from our bio psychosocial how much love you have to your fiance.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that that was your primary stress, then. And so now, two months later, the stresses intensified to with everything that's going on with dependent, you have to worry about your health.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And now hearing that your Fiance's health is also being compromised. So I want to start off by saying that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I want you to reach out to me too. Okay, when you when you realize that you need more coping strategies, go to the virtual clinic and say you want to schedule an appointment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: With me. All right, get some therapy, get some things in place know it's easier said than done these things don't just happen overnight.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're not going to just evolve into this person that automatically knows how to insert coping skills. I'm very realistic when it comes to that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But I also want to give you options because what I heard you say is that I use math because I felt there were no other options to help me deal with this. Is that accurate when I heard
Windy Borjas: You heard it, but I mean more
Windy Borjas: Like I felt about
Windy Borjas: At that moment that
Windy Borjas: That's what I needed to take
Windy Borjas: What I was feeling
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Describe that feeling because it helps to say it out loud so that you can you can really understand what you're working with. So what were you feeling
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Empty
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I can see that you're still very vulnerable and thinking about everything that's going on.
Windy Borjas: By the rules kind of guy.
Windy Borjas: In the middle of everything and
Windy Borjas: And who's done anything can happen at any given minute
Windy Borjas: Everything going on. I don't know if because
Windy Borjas: Somebody that's effective
Windy Borjas: They already quarantine them for two weeks and nobody even knew they didn't even know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Sounds like there's some frustration to that they didn't pick up sooner on the fact that there was someone that had the virus. Now your fiance may be compromised because
Windy Borjas: I just don't understand it because like they have just told everybody they have a negative. Like, how does that, how does that happen. I mean,
Windy Borjas: Within a day or two. How could somebody, all of a sudden positive for it.
Windy Borjas: Okay, he said there was no people like yes, they came from somewhere.
Windy Borjas: But like
Windy Borjas: I mean, he's healthy and all, but it's not about that.
Windy Borjas: Now he's locking it down 24 seven
Windy Borjas: If they decide to lock down. No phone, no nothing is TV.
Windy Borjas: TV.
Windy Borjas: Worry about how
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Lots of uncertainty.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How old is your daughter.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: stressors. When do you know your your concern about how he's doing what's, what's his name I rather referred to him by his name and saying he
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Pick up Jacob.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah yeah you're wondering how Jacob is doing, you know, what is this health is well being just being isolated and on top of that, the worried for him. You also have your concerns about what does this look like for me for me for my daughter us I'm hearing a lot of uncertainty and worries.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yep.
Windy Borjas: I can go home, my family because of the pandemic, they have
Windy Borjas: Nobody
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Speaks of for you can't see your family. Do you live, it's just you and your daughter this together.
Yeah.
Windy Borjas: her grandparents are here. They're my in laws. I don't know.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's a lot.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's a lot to try to manage in the midst of whole global pandemic, whereby your own health. Your precious baby cells and now this
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So when there's anxiety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We tend to adapt to certain unhelpful patterns of thinking to make our anxiety. Even worse, to tell me what sounds more like you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, there are people that they do fortune telling right so they predict this might happen and and they believe that their predictions are reality.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So they get so stuck in that there's people that do emotional reason reasoning where they feel because their emotions feel a certain way in must be the truth. So that leaves very little room for facts and information because all we can focus on is there filming.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then there's certain people that they catastrophizing so something small because have been very big. It's like they blow things out of proportion.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then there's people that do threat scanning rather just kind of looking for anything to kind of be very anxiety to something that can be not threatening that all Gill attached to it and say, yeah, this is threatened.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: By yeah you think that one.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, because I'm
Windy Borjas: I'm very, I don't want to say paranoid, I guess.
Windy Borjas: I'm just very cautious.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And
Windy Borjas: gone through a lot of my life. So I learned that
Windy Borjas: If it looks bad. To me, it probably is bad.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I guess.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, so, you know, don't let things that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We all we have anxiety and gravitate to those forms of thinking. So it sounds like it's a little bit about right scanning, like you mentioned, as well as emotional reasoning.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Reasoning so what I heard you say if I feel that is that the must be terrible. So you allow your emotions to lead your thought process, hence why that very scary situation of fear, worry major emotional to the point of letting us the math.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right, that that's something to be mindful of that right now. I'm doing emotional reason. And so if I can escape to get out of this and do other things aside from just really focusing on my emotions. I might be able to stay sober.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what you want to do is clean to the facts right because there's so much uncertainty right now. So focus on what you do know.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because that makes you feel powerful, it gives you a hope on top of things that you can control. So you do know okay he's been quarantined. So he separated from those people and I heard you say earlier, he's healthy
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He said, but that doesn't matter. So what I heard was that was your rational brain trying to remind you, and encourage you that he's healthy but your emotional brain just pushed it out the way and then focused on everything that's not working.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: During these times, the most important thing to keep in mind is that he's healthy
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right. Because yeah, he may not have TV for a week. But if he gets to live another week. You know, I think that's way more significant and and being able to watch TV. Right.
Windy Borjas: It's not
Windy Borjas: About like
Windy Borjas: Watching TV. It's about it how you cope
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, how does. I know.
Windy Borjas: All right now.
Windy Borjas: The same way I do
Windy Borjas: Like a four by four with another guy.
Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Windy Borjas: Are you watching TV or anything like that.
Windy Borjas: I just know here.
Windy Borjas: here yet.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Of his behaviors than his health right now because you feel comfortable knowing that he say you're thinking he might just do something that's not smart in there, huh. Yep.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This is, this is going to be something hard for you to swallow and adjust, you have no control over what you'll do
I know
Windy Borjas: The worst part.
Windy Borjas: I want
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And even if he was out
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right in your living room. Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You still will not have control over how he behaves, you could speak to him, encourage him to tell them all the things that you feel more locate him by the end of the day, people still make the choice.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So in this uncertainty.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You can have more. What can I control my
Windy Borjas: Only thing I could control was just
Windy Borjas: Being there for him and
Windy Borjas: Nothing.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm hearing a lot of what you can do to support him right so the focus seems that it's been a lot about being that support to him and in trying to be that strong source for him.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Things like you forgot about you because you love him so much. Sounds like you're very much a protector.
Windy Borjas: How
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you protect you.
Windy Borjas: Making sure
Windy Borjas: My daughter's okay
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You feel okay right now.
Windy Borjas: I woke up today in and reading
Windy Borjas: I have nothing to say about that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I was a good
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The permitting of honey yourself in the midst of all of this negativity seeing some of the positive things that's working for you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The mother thing is maybe distraction. Will you do during the day with your daughter. How are you keeping busy throughout the day.
Windy Borjas: We go to her grandma.
Windy Borjas: Or with something rolled out like I've been organizing my house.
Windy Borjas: Trying to like put up right
Windy Borjas: Over that
Windy Borjas: Kind of hectic and loud. He just, like, come over here to
Windy Borjas: Unwind and watch TV.
Windy Borjas: All right, or
Windy Borjas: Whatever.
Windy Borjas: Whatever I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Know, those are things that's within your control that routine that's going to help keep you grounded. What about eating, sleeping and exercise and how's that been for you.
Windy Borjas: Problem.
Windy Borjas: Even before I
Windy Borjas: get my mind off.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I want to I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Wanted to start some basics with you for how to manage anxiety. It may seem silly, but these things have proven to help increase modes of calmness. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So it's called belly breathing and the significance of it is that when you're stressed and over time it it manifests itself within the body.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that's why it's hard for you to sleep and then your mind that you said I can't get my mind out of it. So right now, your body is an auto stress mode.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You wake up after known night. It's like autopilot. But it's autopilot of stress and so your days probably look like if something goes wrong. It's like what else, what else below. Everything is going wrong because it's like, your body has suppressed.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Receiving anything that goes right so the belly breathing helps to get some carbon dioxide into the body, knowing that blood better to elevate the mood to picture.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All right. Don't want you to put one hand on your chest, one hand on your stomach.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And just breathe and tell me
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Which hand rises. First one hand on your chest.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Tell me which. Which hand do you notice rises. First, as you're breathing.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I see it as your chest.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that means that means you're doing shallow breathing. You're taking shorter breaths and that's what people tend to do when they're anxious. So we're going to learn how to read to our belly our belly.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Breathing creates that carbon dioxide. I was telling you about. So you are going to do a deep inhale. Yes. And when you exhale, slow, slow.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's how you want the breathing. You want your belly to rise. When an inhale your belly to deflate. When you exhale, you wanted to continue to do this. Whenever you will activate it with stress because this is a commie recognition to your brain.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To say, Okay, let's get out of this auto stress unless activate some calmness for Wendy
Windy Borjas: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You don't need works if you apply it.
Windy Borjas: Is it kinda like how dominate does
The
Windy Borjas: Don't even know what it's called.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I heard
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: She does a lot of like yoga and mindfulness stuff. So I'm pretty sure that's a part of
Windy Borjas: It. She calls it finding
Out.
Windy Borjas: How to keep fit and stuff.
Windy Borjas: Yeah, I am. I am even just that breath I took. Now did help
Windy Borjas: I'm still trying to master, like how to
Windy Borjas: Take that moment.
Windy Borjas: In it. I mean, amid all the chaos.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, yeah. Because that you have to continuously reapply it
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So every time you find yourself. I had to do that. Earlier today I was getting so stressed out about thinking about everything I had to do. And I realized I need to do my belly breathing and when I did it. I felt calm.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But I know it wasn't just I did a one time during the day I had to do it often throughout the day. So again, activate because remember your body's on that auto stress, your body has been so accustomed to being stressed out that it needs to be introduced two ways to become
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So it can seem a natural for you to stop in the middle of the day and put one hand on your chest and your belt loop. It might seem a natural for you start to feel the difference and okay I feel either
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Build a little more calm, you're going to want to do that because now it's it's creating a new sense of your body that you haven't felt in a long time.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so the next time you're stressed out with doing this and you're also scanning those thoughts that we talked about. So I'm going to share my screen with you so that you could see some of the things that I talked about. He told me that you think you're more of the arm.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You said threat scanning
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I thought, I thought to you have a little bit of the hypothetical worry. I'm gonna pull it up. See
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This yeah okay
Windy Borjas: Yeah. Hold on, let me go.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay.
Windy Borjas: Okay. All right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh, no problem. Alright, so I know so no talking but now you get to kind of see up close and zoom in for you. Alright, so I talked about the Brits scanning. Is that good enough for your resume anymore.
Windy Borjas: Yeah, no, I get it. Perfect. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So the threat scanning I talked about is you're assigning threat to harness events. Right, so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You attach yourself to anything that's going on in your life. This has to be a threat. You said this is the one
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That you tend to gravitate towards so this one is just using coronavirus as one but this applicable to any form of anxiety. So this looks like consciously or subconsciously, your mind is searching for a fear.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right, so it went from below my fiance coronavirus to. Now, how did he react in jail to just all this stuff. So you see how in layers you have one stressor, and then you continue to build up on. Right. So things that could have been just harness events. Now you gravitated towards more
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Protection catastrophizing is when you make the worst case scenarios.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This looks like you feel you feel different things and something that small becomes very big in this case this is this is a ballad worry so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm not sure. And like you mentioned, I don't think this really applies to you in this situation, because these are things to definitely be worried about
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, but maybe you'll see this applied in other situations where something small. You may jump to worst case scenario.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right, so you may call your mother, alas, you don't pick on me, like, Oh, she must hate you today. Those are people that do that catastrophizing they make something smart something big.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Windy Borjas: Know that window.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, the hypothetical worry, this is what I was thinking about with you because there were a lot of what ifs. Right. So these are people that I'm even though the word is normal, right. They think continue to come up with other situations that might be a possibility.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And it's things that they have no control over. So like what we talked about when he said, You know, I'm afraid that because he doesn't have the math because you can't talk on the phone. He's going to act out
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And if I was there I can help him right so what I heard was, what if you don't fix. And I also heard you feeling that you have some control and his behavior.
Windy Borjas: Yeah, that one call is more lately.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, so be mindful of this because the people that are hypothetical warriors there. What is is because of uncertainty. And so what what be helpful for you. Andy is to just stick to the facts. If he tells you that they have me on warranty. I'm separate from them just stick to that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Don't go to the whatever somebody does this in jail, and he is mad. He does agency don't allow yourself to go there.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, so any other things that come up as a stressor for you. You want to realize okay I'm doing my hypothetical worry I'm coming up with all these, what if scenarios. Let me just focus on the facts, what I really do know and do your deep belly breathing, all the way through.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The emotional reason we talked about is when your mind tells you something and you feel like your emotion is reality. So if I'm scared. It must be because you know something bad's about happened.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Those are people that they just run off of their emotions alone.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that's when you're addicted brain activates because the adult brain, the math is drawn to Wendy being her emotions.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then the fortune teller and I don't think this applies to you, but let me know if I'm wrong, is when their mind interprets predictions as fast. So it's like, um,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, it's almost close to the what ifs, but it's just predicting that oh, that person. Well, you kind of did it because you said, I assume that the new person must have been the one that gave it to him.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right. So even though no one told you that's what it was. You kind of came up with your own prediction, because the reason you did that you want it to.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: filter out some type of fact for you so that you can make sense of it all, because like you say, how does it go to know when everyone's negative, he's fine to now we have someone that's positive.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you you went into let me come up with a prediction to give myself some sense of make it make sense for me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So these are all different things, Wendy, and we all have the ability to have these type of traits, whenever we get is always
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay. So I just want you to remind yourself of when you get to that hypothetical worried to realize okay i'm just going to focus on what I can control.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Earlier you mentioned that gratitude I woke up this morning, you know, why would I complain to even start in the journal every day, just write down what you're grateful.
Windy Borjas: I've been trying to
Windy Borjas: Get myself to like when I start feeling like I'm about sometimes my daughter. She uses her grandma. So I'm by myself a lot, and I've been for a while now, so it's it's nothing new. But if, when I started feeling like that. I try to tell myself just to go back over to my daughter.
Windy Borjas: Because I don't. He doesn't know any of that.
Windy Borjas: He has never ever seen me or her dad.
Windy Borjas: Do anything like that so
Windy Borjas: She's getting older.
Windy Borjas: He's like
Windy Borjas: He's like my rock.
Windy Borjas: Is my reminder of why I'm sober and why I don't
Windy Borjas: fall off the wagon and go back to my old way. Yeah.
Windy Borjas: But at the same time, I don't want, I mean, she's the baby because it should be your i mean
Windy Borjas: I support.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: By you taking comfort in being able to say this by me and my fiance's past
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, addiction, my child has never been exposed in witnessing us in our addiction. So I here with that to a sense of responsibility to make sure that she never has to it and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that is a good motivator, right, knowing that, like you said, your protector.
Yeah.
Windy Borjas: I never was.
Windy Borjas: Okay, you don't want this. Okay.
Windy Borjas: Um,
Windy Borjas: I i
Windy Borjas: Came into the protective role.
Windy Borjas: After my
Windy Borjas: Day went to
Windy Borjas: Jail.
Windy Borjas: Just because when I got my daughter back I
Windy Borjas: Mean I live alone with her. So I feel like
Windy Borjas: Like when she tells me she scared at night and I mean like
Windy Borjas: I can't go.
Windy Borjas: I guess, I guess.
Windy Borjas: train myself to
Windy Borjas: You only worrying about her, you know, I mean, or dad or
Windy Borjas: Everybody put me
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes, that's exactly what I was saying earlier, and I'm glad that you come, you have that that notion to realize I need the way I can best protect them is to better take care of myself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So already halfway there. You know, came in your open and honest about how you fail and you're motivated to not let it happen again. And you're open to learning the resources and skills so that you can continue working on you.
Windy Borjas: Yeah, I'm no good to her or him.
Windy Borjas: I'm not hearing
Windy Borjas: President, if I write data mining
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So your in laws are big support team.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Cetera.
Windy Borjas: Now they are mean.
Windy Borjas: They're just like I was reading something the other day.
Windy Borjas: And even remember what it what they what it was called is about a narc narcissistic family cycle or something. Well,
Windy Borjas: And
Windy Borjas: I just feel like
Windy Borjas: There's just a lot of
Windy Borjas: Chaos, like in that house.
Windy Borjas: Yes, they support me
Windy Borjas: And I mean, they help me.
Windy Borjas: With that they can I don't ask for it because I've never been one to ask for help, but I know they're there and
Windy Borjas: Then I mean like they've been the one
Windy Borjas: To answer the phone and
Windy Borjas: They're always there.
Windy Borjas: At my word.
Windy Borjas: They always want my daughter. If I do have a relapse or something and I mean
Windy Borjas: I just feel now that like my god it was over there last weekend when I have maybe lap.
Windy Borjas: I've just not been noticing a lot, she has like a lot of
Windy Borjas: Like
Windy Borjas: trigger a lot of
Windy Borjas: A lot of it is that I've been dealing with life.
Windy Borjas: Mm hmm.
Windy Borjas: I could just see like
Windy Borjas: A car frustration and I mean
Windy Borjas: You get fresh data will
Windy Borjas: Get something right away and I just these their interests in her
Windy Borjas: That I know and myself. I'll do all these
Three.
Windy Borjas: That's not again. I mean,
She's a baby.
Windy Borjas: Out.
Windy Borjas: It couldn't be worried they
Windy Borjas: Will mostly
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Be feeling. Yeah.
Windy Borjas: And not bad.
Windy Borjas: I mean, he's in his in his dad was in prison before him, his brother, like this is a generation, the generation of
Windy Borjas: Just drama.
Windy Borjas: Me an addict alcoholic.
Windy Borjas: Con bit
Like
Windy Borjas: It's just crazy like
Windy Borjas: The first time that like I'm trying to break my my cycle.
Windy Borjas: I mean,
Windy Borjas: Yeah, and I guess I
Windy Borjas: Focused on that and neglected, think about the fact that she has a whole other half.
Windy Borjas: That
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I
Windy Borjas: Know, I could put it, then
Windy Borjas: I worry about her a lot
Just because
Windy Borjas: If I, if I do or ever did.
Windy Borjas: Relapse like that's where she said, Nicole.
Windy Borjas: And her age, like in these times. Nowadays, like
Windy Borjas: Babies are staying baby to all their final fit in. I mean, like,
Windy Borjas: She already things that
Windy Borjas: You understand so much
And
Windy Borjas: I just feel like
Windy Borjas: From my past behaviors and
Windy Borjas: And I mean situation. She's gonna do because of stupid.
Windy Borjas: Things that don't even involve her
Windy Borjas: She is affecting her
Windy Borjas: Will know how to change that are helpful.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So there's an unspoken fear.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: behind everything that you're saying you assess you say you're seeing those triggers that remind you of yourself that she's gone to your in laws and they remind me oh snap that other part is also an addict. So what is that unspoken fear and every time you see those behaviors.
Windy Borjas: If I don't eat her the right ways to cope
Windy Borjas: With the issues that I know she's going to have when she gets older.
Windy Borjas: Down the path I did. I mean, I'm not
Windy Borjas: Saying that I my path has been so bad I don't regret anything I've enjoyed my life I've had, I've had a great life but
Windy Borjas: I've also been through the clutter dealing with
Windy Borjas: Having to start from square one over and over and over again because droid everything with
Windy Borjas: Her
Windy Borjas: And I mean, go up and it's pretty much like I can predict that because I know that, what's going to happen is, those your repeat itself and those same things I see in her or that reason why I got it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Watching challenges presented itself and the anxiety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right. There's a lot of children that grow up. I have pairs of addicts and they grow up so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They are not added
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There's a lot of first generation sober people
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And with your ongoing commitment to be sober and to commit to sobriety. You might be exactly what you're wanting
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The person that breaks that cycle.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're not responsible for breaking the cycle on his generation.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're breaking your generational cycle.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's too much responsibility to be responsible for your generation this generation that's a lot to unpack
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So when you think from you, what can we control. And what I'm hearing what he's doing a lot to me manage her environment to keep her child nurture safe and love.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Those are key skills, that's necessary for building a thriving household or child also hear the fear of a mite relapse. Again, I'm hearing that is still on the back burner because of all the anxiety. And that's a very realistic worry
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What continued focus on the motivator and forget about trying to change that Emma's generation.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Wants you to come to a place of acceptance. That's, that's not your job.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that's why this may seem so unbearable. And that's why you've already predicted that she might end up like less because you're trying to take on so much responsibility. That's impossible.
Windy Borjas: All
Windy Borjas: The responsibility of keeping my daughter having still with
Windy Borjas: All the people that I have
Windy Borjas: Because that
Windy Borjas: Life.
Windy Borjas: Oh,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Windy Borjas: I know what
Windy Borjas: In my controller and what's not in my
Windy Borjas: I do feel like
Windy Borjas: Going My daughter definitely to cope with her triggers is. I mean, it's my job.
Windy Borjas: Mm hmm. How
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They doing when she has those tangents. Have you been helping her process we're called
Windy Borjas: Green.
Windy Borjas: Step back and calm down.
Windy Borjas: Her
Windy Borjas: Fingers
Windy Borjas: I don't know, I just thought even about breaking their cycles, I
Windy Borjas: Mean i know i i can
Windy Borjas: Make it
Windy Borjas: I also have my daughters that live there full time.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And
Windy Borjas: I just think about them, they're older. You mean like their, their brains seem to have already been programmed
Windy Borjas: To that cycle.
Windy Borjas: About them.
Windy Borjas: Like a domino
Windy Borjas: My daughter watches them, you know, those are her older sister.
Windy Borjas: I just
Windy Borjas: I still ears to teach a child like all these things all these key point to everything.
Windy Borjas: Since the start because you can't get the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Not only for your
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's a lot to Karen.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so you know that you can do is, whenever you're in their environment is give me an example of what you want me to do. Are you watching TV.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because even if they are in an environment that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You feel is not beneficial for them.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You can you can be that change. I'm always amazed when I hear different people's stories. People that are successful.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They talked about the environments they grew up in and they still found a way to be successful. They still found a way to get education still find a way to be intellectual speakers and so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They're still hope.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So hope.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I know right now some of the outcomes that are presented to you. It doesn't look as hopeful because you have
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The basics, which are very much important but there's still other things that you want. And so right now it's a lot of uncertainty and with that uncertainty is coming your worries.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But think, okay, when I'm in that price and I'm just going to do the very best I can to give them an example of all the things I wish I saw growing up. And what I want for myself and this
Windy Borjas: Is just the thing though. Like when I was growing up, I was like,
Windy Borjas: I don't
Windy Borjas: Like is that my mom.
Windy Borjas: The most at anybody just because she liked my whole life instead of
Windy Borjas: Doing what I'm trying to do for my daughter like
Windy Borjas: I just remember
Windy Borjas: Thinking of my mom, I want my daughter to think of me like a good mom always went to work or whatever.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But then
Windy Borjas: I think about when I became not it.
Windy Borjas: around that age like
Windy Borjas: Realizing. And finally, understanding what you know i mean what everything really was.
Windy Borjas: And ultimately, I guess that
Windy Borjas: That was where the resentment.
Windy Borjas: Came from with my mom.
Windy Borjas: Because when I became an addict. I would beat myself up.
Windy Borjas: All the time.
Windy Borjas: I was going
Windy Borjas: Because they could not understand why I was an addict, like how that happened.
Windy Borjas: In my mind, nobody has to my mom wasn't an addict or an alcoholic. Nobody
Windy Borjas: And nobody told me anything until like yours, go into my life.
Windy Borjas: You're trying to find the right way.
Windy Borjas: To be honest and real with your kids, but also not its place or brutal
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's a fine line because your mom day what it sounds like. You mentioned earlier that even though I relax. I try to protect my daughter so she doesn't see that so your mom thought she was doing the best parenting. She could because she did her
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Addiction from you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or our mindset, she thought, well at least Wendy doesn't know. And so for her. That was her foundation
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Effective parenting.
Windy Borjas: I see myself doing that a lot, and I don't like it.
Windy Borjas: That right there.
Windy Borjas: Withdrawing from her.
Windy Borjas: End because
Windy Borjas: I'm getting I like all that doing is leaving her vironment that is bringing up these
Windy Borjas: Traits in her
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And what what steps would you be willing to take so that that doesn't have to be the situation. You don't have to disappear because
Windy Borjas: A lot
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like you had an effective dose with the medication or you take hurry.
Windy Borjas: I'm not a
Windy Borjas: Steady at my door.
Windy Borjas: I don't know. I don't know if
Windy Borjas: I need. I don't even know if you can get 40
Windy Borjas: Just as of late. I don't know. I guess it's just everything that's going on.
Windy Borjas: Be honest, I didn't really have anybody to help me with.
Windy Borjas: What I'm supposed to do or how I'm supposed to
Windy Borjas: Deal with life in general.
Windy Borjas: As a mom.
Windy Borjas: As
Windy Borjas: A caregiver.
Windy Borjas: I moved out here from my parents and I had my baby like I didn't have nobody to
Windy Borjas: Show me how
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But despite not having
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The guidance along that way. You know, you're still figuring it out.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're still able to even though your daughter's distracting you. In the middle of a session is still able to speak to her comment, make sure she's bad that to me as a great parenting techniques ban on everybody can net master being calm with their child.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Despite
Windy Borjas: Sometimes I
Windy Borjas: At times throughout the day. Some days I like juggling everything her and I catch myself doing that but i apologize because like, here's the not
Windy Borjas: Wanting
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To on the supports.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You mentioned you're in Los but you have some concerns also support.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you have, are you a part of any
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A na programs a faith based programs. Tell me what all of your supports local not just people
Windy Borjas: Really
Windy Borjas: The only person that I did have, I mean, a friend of mine.
Windy Borjas: He
Windy Borjas: Fell off.
Windy Borjas: We got in a fight the other night.
Windy Borjas: They got i mean
Windy Borjas: That was the only
Windy Borjas: Outlet that I think of I don't go to any
Windy Borjas: Out this way. Anyways, I have the group that we did go to me and my fiance we roll.
Windy Borjas: Up.
Windy Borjas: A few other people turned out pretty
Windy Borjas: Good mental
Windy Borjas: Never protected by about
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If you need anything, you need to lean into your support. We have the group. You have me but you need additional we need all the support backing angry right now because I think you were a bolt on wire. You're rockin
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Enables anger to stabilize you to help you because women. This is a lot that you have
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: No, a lot of these worries that you share their real estate worries, but also attached with the auto stress that you have
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It on to exasperate the practical worries to produce the additional words and it's going to continue to spiral your auto stress, where you're in these moments of emotional districts where you're second guessing everything
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, am I being a good parent I'm I'm being loving
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This really challenging
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But those social supports come in because now you get an opportunity to get outside of your head and to focus on other things, whether it be through faith.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Whether it be through different programs hobbies, whatever you could think back and help distract you, and occupy your time to cut your finger.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that's, that's the thing about we're a finger that worry always just invites itself to that no introduction to just fits right in and before you know it, now you're thinking has just cycled into worry
Windy Borjas: Like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, not when you have the support and when you start building that community of support.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Using the skills that we talked about in our session, the skills to learn from Dominic, and the medication support.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Really doesn't have to be in the cycle.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So we're about to wrap up, but I want to know.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What are your takeaways from this session. What stood out for you. What was helpful.
Windy Borjas: The chart that you showed me
Windy Borjas: It seemed
Windy Borjas: Like learn in depth about myself, personally.
I pick
Windy Borjas: Up my daughter, Amy.
Right.
Windy Borjas: Better when
Windy Borjas: I don't, I don't
Windy Borjas: Like to say better. I mean not saying I'm a bad example I would not care for now, just like me. But I don't think that that bad. I would like it be okay without
Windy Borjas: My husband won't
Windy Borjas: Walk down completely. And you'll at least be able to call one day.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In those moments where you started to not feel as what will you call when you connect with. What will you do
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Not to meet again.
Windy Borjas: What
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Would you like to meet again sometime next week.
Windy Borjas: Or tell me when you're when you're open
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Wednesday at five o'clock. Does that work.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I want you this week to practice your belly breathing, and I want you to tell me if you notice any difference.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Not long term just in that moment. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Trying to keep trying it and tell me the different thing.
Windy Borjas: Next Wednesday at five.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes, that's, that's what's that what
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I will see you next week.
Windy Borjas: Alrighty, thank
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You take care
All right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm going to continue being patient
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Patient was very focused on our relationship. Some codependency was it says, as well as the ability to control
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He is diagnosed with anxiety and bipolar disorder, throw at next question therapists will explore medication that a patient is taking to address.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or mental mental illness disorders.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Patient arrived to session I'm
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In a distressed.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Offense I'm convert with depressed mood. I saw anxiety that was present throughout the session. So some grammar exercises were applied to patient treatment modalities that were applied and skills in this session, we're
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: CVT, as well as DDT and a little bit of motivational interviewing